we can't really have any of the other
aspects of the
culture including cander
learning seeking excellence and
Improvement freedom and responsibility
if you don't start with high Talent
density and in some ways it's very
reflective of Reed Hastings as founder
of Netflix so when he founded Netflix
and grew the company over time it was
with a belief that there could be a
different approach to build building a
company that would make it a place that
people thrived in and loved being and
would feel different than other places
both in the quality of that Talent
density but even more importantly like
the Excellence and the outcomes and that
that's where people would derive a lot
of sense of fulfillment so it it's very
deeply seated at Netflix from its
original days and in order to do that
you have to really hold yourself to a
lot of stuff that doesn't feel like
natural human
behavior today my guest is Elizabeth
Stone Elizabeth is Chief technology
officer at Netflix and as far as I can
tell the first Economist to ever be
named CTO at a Fortune 500 company prior
to this role Elizabeth was vice
president of data and insights before
Netflix she was vice president of
science at Lyft coo at Nuna a Trader at
Marl Lynch and an economist at analyst
group in our conversation we cover a lot
of ground we talk about how an economics
background has helped Elizabeth in her
career and why she expects to see more
economists rise in the ranks of tech
companies she shares some of her secret
sauce for Rising so quickly at so many
companies so consistently we delve into
Netflix's very unique culture of high
Talent density radical cander and
freedom and responsibility we also talk
about the structure that Netflix has for
their data and user research teams which
she believes is a part of Netflix's
secret to success we also get into what
biking and triathlons have taught
Elizabeth about life and how she brings
that into her work and so much more a
huge thank you to Ali Ral for
introducing me to Elizabeth if you enjoy
this podcast don't forget to subscribe
and follow this podcast in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube this helps
tremendously and I really appreciate it
with that I bring you Elizabeth Stone
after a short word from our
sponsors this episode is brought to you
by vanta when it comes to insur in your
company has top-notch security practices
things get complicated fast now you can
assess risk secure the trust of your
customers and automate compliance for
sock 2 ISO
2701 Hippa and more with a single
platform vanta V's Market leading trust
management platform helps you
continuously monitor compliance
alongside reporting and tracking risk
plus you can save hours by completing
security questionnaires with Vana AI
join thousands of global companies that
use V to automate evidence collection
unify risk management and streamline
Security reviews get $1,000 off vanta
when you go to
v.com Lenny that's
vana.com SL
Lenny let me tell you about a product
called sber the all-in-one
Communications API platform designed for
both web and mobile apps in a world
saturated with multi-channel
communication product teams are just
discovering the effectiveness of inapp
communication with sen bird businesses
can Elevate their inapp experience with
decluttered and branded communication
featuring AI powered chat Bots one-way
messages chat video calls and live
stream capabilities all tailored for
Commerce marketing and top tier support
forward-thinking companies such as hinge
patreon Yahoo Accolade and more use
senir to build inapp communication
experiences that drive engagement
conversion and retention Ina
communication has the highest conversion
highest engagement and highest
satisfaction of any communication
Channel and when it comes to investing
in this channel trust sber to take your
inep communication experience to the
next level start today with sen Bird's
free plan and as a listener of Lenny's
podcast you'll get an additional 2
months of unlimited usage and access to
all premium features including creating
your very own generative AI chatbot
visit send bird.com Lenny to begin your
your free Journey that's sg.com
Lenny Elizabeth thank you so much for
being here and welcome to the podcast
thank you thank you for having me so
when we booked this conversation you
were VP of data and Netflix and since
then you got a promotion you're now the
CTO of Netflix which feels significantly
more fancy question for you what is life
like now that you are CTO versus vpf
data how is it most different I'm
imagining more
meetings I would say the biggest thing
that changed is probably the amount of
context switching and the degree to
which I feel behind or I have a lot to
learn and I felt like I had a lot to
learn in the vpa data and insights role
that I was in before in park because we
cover a lot of different areas of the
business and there's always people to
learn from but the engineering
organization just takes that to a 100
basically so more people to get to know
more problem spaces aspects of technical
expertise that I'm just not as deeply
familiar with um and yeah a lot more
meetings I imagine many higher Stakes
meetings as well yes so thankfully not a
lot of meetings at Netflix feel like now
you're really in this scary room but it
does feel like the role has more
consequence which is actually an
exciting thing kind of along the lines
of what you just talked about being a
CTO your background is actually unusual
you're a trained Economist you got a PhD
in economics and from what I can tell
you were the first CTO of a Fortune 500
company that is an economist trained in
economics first of all is that true I
don't know if that's I think that's true
but you tell me I have not checked the
list that was one of the things I did
not do after getting the title I might
be unusual I've heard a lot of feedback
on that so I don't know if I'm the one
and only but I will definitely it's
probably unusual yeah so I guess the
question is just do you think this is an
anomaly and going to continue to be
really rare do you think this is some
we're going to see more at tech
companies and generally do you think
tech companies should hire more
economists yes to the last question
that's the easiest of it but one of the
things I observed even with the focus on
data science where I've been deeper for
a period of time is that economics is a
flavor of data science so it it's a set
of tech technical skills for sure it's a
way of framing certain problems or
solving
challenges and so when I was first
switching from economics into Tech it
was before there was a lot
of sort of the frenzy around data
science that we've seen more recently
and it was harder to make that argument
that economics is a flavor of data
science and maybe complimentary to other
versions of data science and I feel more
strongly about that now that I've seen
it up close and so maybe by extension I
would say just like I think data science
can be helpful for a lot of different
problems that you might not immediately
think oh this is something that we
should bring data to I think that
economics is generally valuable for a
lot of different challenges and it's a
useful perspective to add to things
especially in a business context and
especially in how we want to simplify
problems in a way that makes them feel
tractable so I feel like that's been a
benefit to me to have had that type of
formal training and then bring that
perspective or way of thinking to
different roles and so I I don't know
that many people at Netflix think of me
as an economist but I I find it comes
out in the way I think about things so
to the extent that that's true generally
I think it's useful in a lot of
companies and I feel like even since I
made the switch towards Tech I've seen
it become much much more common to think
about the value of having Economist on
teams just to pull on that threat a
little bit more is there something very
tactical or conrete that you can share
that you find helpful with that
background that you found helpful in
your career other than the Dismal dry
science of it all uh so so one example
would probably be in an understanding
incentives and thinking
about unintended consequences and I
think that that is true both in terms of
internal leadership so being part of a
management team that's thinking about
how do we clarify priorities or motivate
a company or Define the problems we want
to solve and then part of it is more
externally oriented how do we want to
think about what Netflix is to Consumers
and how we want to think about
competition and there can be a rational
way of thought which is one version of
Economics of like shouldn't rational
intelligent people behave in the
following way and then there's the well
if given certain incentives what might
you see that we didn't think was optimal
or we weren't expecting to happen but
could be a consequence or repercussion
here and so I think that that type of
framing I don't know if it's Unique to
economics in a way you know because it
has elements of psychology to it as well
um and kind of planning ahead has become
really useful for thinking through kind
of cause and effect so that has come up
in a lot of different spaces in Netflix
and in other roles I've been in I was
looking at your LinkedIn and looking at
your career over the years and it seems
like you've had a meteoric rise at four
different companies and I'll just walk
through them briefly so your first job
you went from associate to vice
president in three years at the next
company Nuna you went from manager of
data science to coo in two years at
Netflix you went from VP to CTO in three
years I think that's really rare I'm
curious what is your secret sauce to
being so successful at so many places
and especially in the context of what
advice can you share with folks earlier
in their
career this is one of those questions
that Sparks the reflection that I
wouldn't normally do so that's great
um I really don't think of it as a
secret sauce but maybe I can walk
through some of the things that I think
Have Been
instrumental as you listed that out it's
like it sounds like the two to three
year point is the real sweet spot um so
then maybe there's something about that
timeline but I I think some things
almost
feel trit in how I would say them which
is I'm very dedicated to the work and to
the teams I'm part
of it's been part of who I am for a long
time that I give everything I've got to
the job that I'm in and I think that
dedication and that I get joy out of
that has mattered it matters because I
enjoy what I'm doing I do the best work
I possibly can less so for myself and my
own ambition and more so because I I
think of myself as being part of a team
and so I really need to deliver for that
team and I think that framing in my mind
and that
motivation has helped me in a few fr
fronts which
is the way in which I build Partnerships
with people I work with that I really
care about setting other people up for
success and being someone that people
want to work with so I learn from them
they learn from me and we get better
outcomes for the business
together I have found that part of that
is being someone that people can
leverage to translate from technical to
non-technical and non-technical to
technical so that I do think has been a
relative advantage in my role so while I
was often sitting in more technically
oriented teams a lot of the advancement
in my career was to roles that required
that type of communication fluency and
it grew out of being able to partner
with people across the businesses who
didn't necessarily have the same
background but where we needed to really
connect spaces so that we could be more
effective and and that was something
that I I think really the training for
that came from analysis group where it
was a very quantitative set of work that
we had to find a way to communicate to
judges and juries for economic cases so
that was something that was trained in
other roles and I think I've been able
to leverage I'm a relatively introverted
only child so I observe a lot uh which
means that I learn from other people uh
and in each of these roles I have tried
really hard
to watch what other people are doing
think about like how could I learn
something from them whether it's the
thing that I want to be able to do
myself or it's the thing that I think oh
that doesn't quite fit or feel authentic
with my style and I do a lot of that
introspection so I I have been
surrounded by amazing people in all
these roles and I have a feeling that I
learned a lot by osmosis and observation
and then have been able to leverage that
to be stronger in the roles I was
sitting in so I took a few notes here so
a few things you mentioned is just like
dedication essentially working really
hard and taking your work seriously
being part of a team and setting other
people up for Success translating
complex Tech language and problems to
non- tech people and then being really
good at observing and learning from
other people around you is there an
example or two that you could share of
some of these to make it even more
concrete for people like dedication is
that just like working many hours uh
being part of a team anything along
those Lin to make to share a story maybe
to help people put this into practice no
and it's a good clarification because
the dedication piece really isn't about
long working hours it's more about how
much
I care
about Excellence I guess so giving it my
best in those situations and that might
not mean that I work really wild hours
or I work weekends or I'm the one who's
willing to sacrifice the vacation I've
actually tried to avoid setting that as
an expectation but more that I hold
myself to a very high standard so an
example would
be especially as I've gotten more senior
in
roles there can be an expectation that
it's okay for other people to wait
on me so whether it's like the timing
for a meeting or providing input on
something or reviewing a document or
following through on something I said
that I was going to do and I really try
to avoid that which means that if
someone sends me something I try to be
very responsive about it if I know that
I said I'm going to do something I
follow through on it in the timeline
that I said I was going to do if I have
a meeting I try to be on time to that
meeting and those are all flavors of
dedication to the work that show up and
oh it seems like Elizabeth works really
hard but the motivation factor is other
people are relying on me and I want to
show up for them and so that's when I
say dedication and it's related to the
second Point around showing up well for
the team those would all be examples of
I feel urgency in responding to people
and doing high quality work for the
other parts of technical to
non-technical I think a great example is
actually a very timely one at Netflix
which
is we are making strides to offer live
content types so Live Events live TV
shows we announced this week that we're
going to be hosting WWE starting later
this year and early next year
2025 that
is easier said than done done I know
that there's a lot of entertainment
companies that have live content but
Netflix has really been in the streaming
content business so live content is
something new for us and it's something
that's going to require a really close
partnership between our content
organization and our products and
Technology organization because there's
a Content strategy to it there's a
business strategy there's a technology
strategy to it and a big part of my role
is can I explain how we're going to
approach those technical problems in a
way that builds confidence with the
content team and can I try to understand
their content strategy in a way that
sets the technical teams up for success
and we understand what we need to be
able to deliver on here in terms of
requirements and I don't think I'd be
able to do my current role well if I
wasn't able to do that type of
translation for something that's going
to be a big bet for the business and
something we want to invest in jointly
and then to set my partners up for
success in that so I like I'm going to
do everything I can to make sure we
deliver well for my content partners
because I feel like that's what's best
for Netflix in the business amazing
examples in terms of Life content I
think about uh the Love is Blind I think
it was uh for Premiere whatever reunion
that my we we got sucked into that show
so good job and I think there were some
issues with that right that reunion
stream yeah that was about a a little
less than a year ago now um so the
amazing thing about failure is you learn
a lot we learned a lot we've taken notes
on it and we had a couple successful
events after that including the Netflix
Cup last October and we've got some
exciting events coming up so I think
that's something that strengthened us
but did reveal that we're tackling a
hard problem yeah the Twitter feeds
during that love is blind Premier
hilarious people are
pissed okay and then in terms of the
keeping a high bar for yourself I love
that I think about a quote that um
there's a VC and Muro at Floodgate and
she did this interview with Tim Ferris
and she shared that her dad always asked
her are you doing a world class job with
this like are you doing a world-class
job with your homework are you doing a
world class job with your piano recital
and that's the bar that he always had
for her and I feel like that's a really
good way to think about work and you
know life in general if you can
yeah uh
my mother used to describe to me
probably still does though it required
more repeating when I was younger that
the last
5% is the 5% that really
mattered and so it it is that framing of
the thing the extra effort you put into
something to make it world class or to
make it
excellent and so I do like to push
myself that way and I I hope it sets a
good example for other people too and
it's very consistent with especially the
company cultures that I tend to thrive
in where that's the general expectation
of the culture so you don't feel like
you're doing it alone because then I
think you can start to feel frustrated
by that I know that there this is a big
part of Netflix culture and I want to
get into it but before that I'm curious
just what that looks like with people
that report to you how do you help them
level up in this skill of having a
really high bar and an example I'll give
as you think about maybe an example is
the way I describ this to my PMS was you
want to have this aura that you've got
this that if you give Lenny something
he's got this he's gonna follow up he's
gonna close the loop he's gonna get it
done if he can't get it done he'll tell
me I feel like this thre red will not
disappear you won't drop this ball is
there anything that you've learned as a
good way to help someone learn this kind
of skill and understand why this is so
important it shows up for the people who
report to me
is one part example setting so if I
don't do it why would they do it and I
treat that very seriously that we should
all be held to the same
standards and as a second thing I give
feedback when it's not up to the
standard so I think some one of the
things I've observed especially with
people on my teams is that the
expectations aren't always clear and you
can't assume that they're clear if you
don't share
them and when something's not meeting
expectations or really showing up as
Excellence I think it's a combination of
both giving the feedback on that and
being direct about it and being specific
about what would it take to get this to
the bar that I'm expecting or to show up
in the way that I'm
expecting and then the third and
probably most important thing is help
them fill that Gap so that would mean
like let's take an example it certainly
has happened frequently in many jobs
like a document is okay it's not great
it's not going to be easy for people to
follow it's not as crisp as it could be
there's things that would strengthen it
I can both give the feedback on that to
make sure like yes it's going to take
another round of iteration yes we're
going to have to work another week on
this and not yeah not be done with it
but pushing people to get there and then
jumping into the document and helping so
I I feel very strongly about and that's
kind of what I mean by setting an
example of like let's work on this
together and then through that help
people uplevel themselves so the next
time around they kind of they know the
expectations and they've had help kind
of getting there in the past so that's
probably happened a thousand times in my
career where I I jump in with both feet
because something needs to be better and
I think the teams are better for it
right afterwards or I hope they are I
think that's such a good framework just
to kind of mirror back what you said set
expectations that the bar is going to be
really high and here's what I'm
expecting from you give them very
specific feedback on where the Gap is
and then help them fild that Gap and I
think a lot of people may feel this and
hear this and are like oh man I I don't
want a manager that's like this high of
an expectation person and it just feels
really stressful but I've had these
managers and I feel like they're that's
when I've learned the most and leveled
up the most is having someone that gave
me had really high expectations and then
helped me understand here's where you're
not doing as well as you can I know you
could do better go back and work on this
like I know that sounds annoying but I
think in practice it ends up helping you
most in your career I imagine you've
seen a similar uh result I think so I
mean you'd have to ask some of the
people on my team so I might look at it
differently than look at it it it's a
hard skill because it's not always easy
to give feedback especially if if you
feel like you know someone's put a lot
of effort into something and so I give a
lot of thought to how I deliver that
feedback so it feels like we're on the
same team and I'm trying to help them be
successful not to help you know
encourage
failure and that's where I think that
third piece of the framework of jumping
into help can make people feel like I'm
in a safe space my manager wants me to
be successful my manager's helping me
here and I do often do that behind the
scenes so maybe that's another flavor of
this which is I don't do it live in the
big meeting in front of all the people
where the presentation doesn't go very
well I do it afterwards where it feels
like a safer space to say here's a way
this could have gone better let's think
about this differently next time so it
gives
people you know a little Grace you know
and a little bit bit of an ability to
absorb that feedback without feeling
like it's kind of on a on a
stage another thing someone may be
feeling when they're hearing this is
like oh my God this going to be take me
so many hours to just get it to a place
Elizabeth is happy with and I know you
said that this doesn't mean necessarily
many hours you any advice or thoughts on
just how to avoid like burnout and
working all the time but also keeping
this really high bar and high
expectations it truly is not about time
I even found myself in a meeting earlier
today
saying
if we're clearing the objectives of
something it might be that the last 20%
of polish on the document is a really
bad use of time so if we're going to
come together to talk through like
quarterly Business Review was the
example what were the highlights what
were the low lights what were the
learnings from the quarter where are
there places of
misalignment the reason we're doing the
quarterly Business Review is to have a
really candid conversation about how we
think things are going to have a debate
about things where maybe we're stuck
it's not to have a perfectly Polished
document for that conversation so my
feedback in that instance would be I
would much rather have someone spend the
time thinking about what's the
conversation we really want to have how
do I tee that up not could I spend
another 20 hours to make it look like
everything's perfect in this document
and so I think in that sense it's it's
not just Excellence like you wrote the
perfect document I should probably be
careful to not use that as the only
example but instead we really got to the
outcome we wanted to get to because we
were thoughtful about it and we put a
lot of energy and time and iteration
into making sure we got to that outcome
and is this examples an example where
you gave someone feedback because they
spent too much time on the Polish or is
this earlier and thinking of the Pyramid
of this framework you kind of shareed
set expectations give specific feedback
help them fill the Gap and then do it in
private is this like the expectation
setting in this example example or is
this like feedback you spend too much
time on this this is expectation setting
so one of the things in my new role is
that there's some practices that the
team has had where they're trying to
understand are we still going to have
those practices what's going to be the
same versus different about those things
and get an understanding of my
expectations so it's great that people
ask that question so that I can be clear
about oh wait if you're on the last 20%
of this polishing the dock I'd rather
spend time over here and here's how I
would like the conversation to go so we
all get something out of it instead of
it feeling like it's just a leadership
reviewer on my behalf so this in this
specific situation it was setting
expectations ahead of time so that we
can set everyone up for success awesome
Okay so we've kind of been talking
around this but this is an important
part of the Netflix culture so just
broadly Netflix has a really special and
unique culture even though it's been
around for I think over 25 years now it
feels like the culture has come up many
times there's that initial culture deck
that came out that kind of blew
everyone's Minds there's a recent book
no rules rules think it's called and it
feels like Netflix has done a great job
at maintaining its culture and it feels
to me there's kind of these three
important elements and maybe there's
more one is uh very high Talent density
and a focus on high performers two is
cander and being really direct and then
three is giving people freedom and
responsibility and getting rid of
useless processes like time and things
like that so maybe just to dive into
that first one of high Talent density
which and high and this focus on high
performance I guess the question there
is just like how does this actually look
what does this look like in Netflix and
imagine part of it as hiring part of it
is performance reviews and then just why
is it so important why is this such a
focus at Netflix what is the what is
what happens when you have such a high
Talent density it's just so intrinsic
to who Netflix is as a company and in
some ways it's very very reflective of
Reed Hastings as founder of Netflix
so when he founded Netflix and grew the
company over time it was with a belief
that there could be a different approach
to building a
company that would make it a place that
people thrived in and loved being and
would feel different than other places
both in the quality of that Talent
density but even more importantly like
the Excellence and the outcomes and that
that's where people would derive a lot
of sense of fulfillment so it it's very
deeply seated at Netflix from its
original days
and a big piece of that Talent density
is definitely hiring so who are the
people coming in and joining the team
but a lot of it is we can't really have
any of the other aspects of the
culture including cander
learning seeking excellence and
Improvement freedom and responsibility
if you don't start with high Talent
density and so in some ways that's
a it's not the end it's the means to the
end in what Reed and the rest of the
leadership team has been trying to build
and so in order to do that you have to
really hold yourself to a lot of stuff
that doesn't feel like natural human
behavior and what I mean by that
is giving the feedback this gets into
the second bucket so giving feedback
being candid around your expectations
when they're not being met what could be
better in helping people improve and be
able to receive that type of feedback
yourself in order to keep Talent density
High because no one comes to Netflix as
a perfect human being and stays a
perfect human being the whole time we
all have ways that we could grow and
improve and and so in order to keep that
bar High you have to be willing to have
those types of very uncomfortable
conversations it's an uncomfortable
amount of cander and feedback in order
to keep that bar
high and then the other piece of it is
another thing that doesn't come
naturally to humans which is making a
call in
pretty timely
fashion if someone's not able to meet
the
bar to say either I don't think the role
you're sitting in is the right role or I
don't think that Netflix is the right
place for
you and to make that something that is
part of best practice to get to a point
where you could make that decision and
that's where we refer to the keeper test
which is really just a mental framing to
make sure we hold ourselves accountable
for this where if I'm asking myself the
question if if this person on my team
came to me and said I'm leaving today I
have a different opportunity and I would
like to take it would I do everything I
could to keep them at
Netflix if not then I should be having
that tough conversation about should you
really be here are you in the right role
if I might be a little bit relieved if
you said you were leaving and the reason
the keeper test and that question is
useful is because no one wants to think
that way it's very hard to say to
someone I think this isn't the right fit
I think you should move on from the
company so we have to introduce some of
those Reflections in order to encourage
the
behavior
and we also then want to get to a place
where when you're having that tough
conversation people aren't surprised by
it that is easier said than done but you
can only get to that conversation around
I don't think Netflix and you are the
right fit for one another if you've been
giving feedback along the way and so it
feels like you know in it in its most
ideal State it's a
mutual observation in practice it's not
always that smooth obviously we are
humans but it that all feeds on itself
in order to make sure that we're really
holding ourselves to what we say our our
behavioral Norms as part of the culture
how how's that operationalized is that
just like a mental model that you should
have in mind or is it like every quarter
you should go through this exercise is a
part of the performance review process
how does it actually operationalize the
network uh it's definitely a mental
model so when we talk to managers about
what does it mean to be a manager at
Netflix it would mean you should be with
some frequency asking yourself this
about the people on your team people ask
me frequently am I passing your keeper
test so it becomes part of a regular
manager direct report oneon-one
and it is just another way of saying am
I meeting your expectations what's going
well what's not going well how are you
thinking about things and that can
sometimes be a very awkward conversation
to have so in the middle of a lot of
like we have to talk about this project
or that deliverable or this thing that's
happening to take the time to step back
and just say how am I doing can feel
loaded sometimes and the keeper test
while it feels like a very heavy concept
creates a lightness around being able to
have that conversation regularly so it
it we do operationalize it a point that
you made I'll just clarify we don't have
performance reviews oh wow so we don't
have a practice that a lot of other
companies do where we would think about
reflecting on like a rating of how
things are going we do have an annual
cycle of 360 feedback where you request
and receive feedback from a lot of
people but it's not an input to some
output it's just for the value of the
feedback and to make sure we're keeping
that muscle
and we have an annual compensation cycle
where we reflect on how are people doing
and so you think about performance as
part of both promotions and as part of
compensation but in that way it's it has
to be part of the day-to-day and part of
the operating Rhythm because we don't
create a process where that would come
to the surface interesting I didn't know
that so the idea there is just ongoing
like the whole it's what many people
dream of no performance reviews we will
give you on going realtime feedback we
don't have to wait 6 months I feel like
people talk about this but very rarely
do this but that's how you guys operate
in the ideal in ideal practice it's like
that you have to keep reminding yourself
this is our ideal because it's really
easy to rely on the annual 360 cycle and
all of a sudden I might get I do get
about 300 pieces of feedback and some of
those things are things that happened
six months ago and I think oh I wish you
had told me this at the time that would
have been more living the Netflix
culture so we have to push ourselves to
do it that way but yeah that is if
working well it's very timely direct
feedback the 360 cycle is sort of the
annual check-in on let me get the full
picture let me be able to distill some
themes let me Tee It Up For a
conversation with my manager and
then it it does
remove the the sort of crutch of an
every six-month performance review or
something like that when you talked
about this example of someone asking you
often am I am I meeting your keeper test
it makes me feel like someone's just
like super nervous they're like am I
passing your keeper test and it makes me
feel like it could create a culture of
just like a lot of stress and worry and
this Hunger Games mentality of like I
got to compete and worry and I might die
or get fired any day I'm guessing the
solution to that is partly cultural this
is just the way we work you you don't
need to stress all the time but you may
be let go if you're not meeting this
keeper test how do you avoid this just
like constant worry that you might be
fired any day and that you may not be
hitting the bar in my personal
experience I have felt a lot
more at
ease by having these conversations than
by not having them so in many roles I've
had I haven't been sure how I was
doing or things I could be doing better
on and I didn't quite know how to get
that information and that made me feel
much more stressed or nervous or at risk
than having it be part of the culture to
have those conversations so the thing
that I think can be nerve-wracking and I
feel it
myself is the high bar for excellence at
Netflix and you're surrounded by if
we're doing this well you're surrounded
by amazing people and that can feed a
sense
of am I doing well enough compared to
how everyone else is doing and I I know
the bars high for the most part that can
drive people and in a good way but in
some ways it makes people nervous and
that's where I think it's helpful to
know we expect to have these
conversations so you can just kind of
you know let your shoulders relax a
little bit of yes the expectations are
high but my manager says I'm doing a
great job or my manager says I'm not
doing a great job but they gave me
concrete things that I could do better
and so I I think knowing is better than
not and so in that sense it's the
culture combined with the conversations
around performance I hope take a little
bit of that stress out of it but I've
certainly heard it a lot that without
that conversation people can be nervous
that's such a good point and such a good
example that I feel like every company
wants to have a high bar and have only
High performers and keep the bar really
high for every person they hire I'm
curious I know this could be its own
podcast and book but just in terms of
hiring people at that are amazing and
keeping this bar of Excellence is there
anything you can point out that might be
helpful to other companies hiring to
help identify amazing people and make
sure that bar stays High one thing I
know is you guys pay top market for
salary I think that's one unique thing
about Netflix is we just pay pay people
uh
so maybe that's an answer part of this
answer but just what what advice do you
have for people to keep a really high
bar in their talent yeah I mean on the
compensation point we pay what we call
personal top of Market meaning we want
to be highly competitive in the pay but
we don't want pay to be like the golden
handcuffs of Netflix sets Market rather
than paying people a strongly
competitive compensation so
I think
that that's important for attracting and
ret retaining talent and has been a big
part of the culture but almost more
importantly we hope we don't have to
rely on that to want people to want to
be at Netflix or for us to be able to
assess whether people are going to
thrive at Netflix and the way that I've
thought about hiring with that context
is we know we're going to offer you very
highly competitive
compensation but are you going to come
to Netflix and help
us identify the right problems to solve
or new ways to solve existing problems
and that's a different way of hiring
then you might think about especially at
scale where you're saying does this
person have this skill this skill this
skill check they're going to fit in this
box and they're going to deliver this
work that I need them to do I'm being
intentionally simplistic I recognize a
lot of people don't hire actually that
way but at Netflix we try really hard to
say we're looking from the new
perspective or the person who's actually
going to make us stronger as a team so
thinking about additive skills additive
perspectives people who are going to
push our thinking on something and that
tends to help us with thinking about
Talent density because you're constantly
introducing people to the team who up
level so then the questions you have to
ask in an interview might be different
because yes we're trying to assess do
you have the Baseline skills to be
successful here but we're also looking
for the things that make people
exceptional or even stronger than the
team we've got and then you think about
making the magical teams comprised of
all those amazing minds and what can you
get out of that and that feels like more
the the talent density and practice got
it so the advice there essentially is
don't look for someone just simply great
look for someone that raises the bar for
for the whole team brings in a whole new
perspective yeah I think what's great
about this idea of just maintaining
Excellence consistently is that the best
people want to work with the best people
and as soon as there's one person that
sucks and the company allows for that it
just brings everyone down because they
know hey we can we can be okay we'll
sticker no one's goingon to do anything
about it and when you make it clear we
only have want the best and only hire
the best only keep the best it keeps the
best there right I that's part of this
strategy it's definitely the goal and I
I think understanding that having gaps
in the team and people's skill sets or
their behavior can be really toxic for
other people on the team so it's a cost
this episode is brought to you by explo
a game changer for customer facing
analytics and data reporting are your
users craving more dashboards reports
and analytics within your product are
you tired of trying to build it yourself
as a a product leader you probably have
these requests in your road map but the
struggle to prioritize them is real
building analytics from scratch can be
time-consuming expensive and a really
challenging process enter explo Expo is
a fully wh labeled embedded analytic
solution designed entirely with your
user in mind getting started is easy
explow connects to any relational
database or warehouse and with its low
code functionality you can build and
style dashboards in minutes once you're
ready simp embed the dashboard or report
into your application with a tiny code
snippet the best part your end users can
use explos AI features for their own
report and dashboard generation
eliminating customer data requests for
your support team build and embed a
fully white labeled analytics experience
in days try it for free at expo. co/
Lenny that's
ex.
Lenny so asked on Twitter what questions
to ask you and there's a great question
that came in from nonu he's the head of
product for linear and he asks what
practices does Netflix do that other
companies should not attempt to do
because their talent level is so much
higher than other
companies that is freedom and
responsibility in a nutshell so let me
explain that um it's a good question and
it it's kind of related to what I was
saying earlier that Talent density is a
prerequisite for a lot of the other ways
we
operate so if if we want to create a
work environment where we are not
prescriptive
about how people solve
problems or the scope of problems that
they could tackle assuming they're
highly impactful for the business and we
don't have a lot of process around
that work so think about being able to
make large Innovations to our
Engineering Systems or introducing new
ways to think about metrics and
experimentation we get a lot of those
things because we give people the
freedom and the space to explore and
question things and experiment in a way
with
Solutions and I I think that that
would be very hard if not dangerous if
we didn't have a high Talent density
it's really not a top down do a then B
then
C even in how we go through some of our
planning processes or thinking about how
we think about
priorities there is a lot of room for
contribution across all levels of the
team and that requires Talent density
and then there's things like you know
you have to have amazing people if
you're not going to have really strict
guard rails that would influence the
consumer experience or business
stakeholders experience and we do give
people a lot of responsibility on those
things so I think the the lack of
process and prescriptiveness is all
hinging on we've got amazing people who
are smart but even better have strong
judgment this is kind of what you always
hear from people giving Founders advice
is just hire amazing people get out of
their way and let them do their job
which is often not a successful
experience what are examples that come
either things that came out of this
freedom I don't know products or
features or ideas that came out of this
or policies or processes you don't have
that everyone else might have so I know
there's no vacation time there's like
unlimited vacation time if that I assume
is that still a thing unlimited vacation
time okay cool yeah all right uh great
uh and I know performance reviews you
talked about that so I guess in either
direction like is an example of
something that came out of this Freedom
or some process that would surprise
people that you don't have or a
framework or system we've been able to
deliver you know I'll speak to my own
team
around Innovations in our content
delivery Network or Innovations in
encoding or Innovations in Discovery and
personalization were not driven by some
leader saying I think this is a priority
they were driven in many es by
individual contributors who had great
ideas for Innovation so a lot of the
stuff that Netflix has succeeded in came
from creating space for people on the
team so there's probably thousands of
examples of product features and things
like that that came out of creating this
space and right now the trick is finding
the sweet spot so that we can operate
efficiently at this type of scale with
out snuffing out some of that what was
kind of the core beauty of the culture
maybe a last question around just the
culture we talked on about cander a bit
I'm just curious if there's an example
that comes to mind of of an example of
cander that you recently saw or had to
be the candid person that might be
interesting to share uh where it's like
oh wow that's what you mean when you say
a culture of candid of
cander there's a couple things that come
to mind I am generally a transparent
leader
meaning I share information freely and
open it's part of the culture to context
not control which means part of my job
is to make sure that people have the
context they need to do their jobs well
and in practice that
means I take notes in leadership
meetings and I share those notes with
the whole
organization and that is sometimes it it
includes cander around Reflections on
things that aren't going well or
problems we need to solve sometimes it's
just letting people know here's what
leadership's talking about so that they
have a sense of what's top of mind but
it's it's a version of transparency that
I feel strongly about doesn't exist a
lot of other places and I I think it's a
version of cander too in being able to
share I can't we share every detail of
everything that we're talking about but
I do try to share things that probably
push the boundary a little bit in the
team feeling like they understand what's
happening across the company and what
I'm thinking about and then there's a
second example that comes to mind which
is
until two years ago individual
contributors didn't have levels at
Netflix so all Engineers were just
senior Engineers all data scientists
were senior data scientists and we did
not have a leveling
system we introduced IC levels two years
ago almost exactly and it was a big big
big shift because it it was seen as
something that was sort of sacred of it
a lot of people came to Netflix because
we didn't have it we didn't have process
around promotions we didn't this is
probably part of why we never had
performance reviews because promotions
really weren't at play and it gave
people a sense of freedom of not having
to worry about that type of structure
but when you get to a St scale of an
organization we needed some type of
scaffolding to say we want to talk about
how we compose teams like when do we
need the person who has 30 years of
experience when do we want to have a new
grad because that's what the work
requires we didn't have a language for
it so I introduced levels a couple years
ago and it we had quite a change roller
coaster is the only way I can describe
how it went good phrase uh and I yeah it
was sort of like being like the tumble
dry machine for a few months and so
really talking through it with the team
that's just context and backdrop for an
example of cander recently which is we
had kind of a postmortem or retro on how
has it gone with IC levels so it's kind
of like Wells not Wells and I would
normally think in a lot of cultures it
would be like well we got past that
change we're living that change like
don't don't reflect on it because that
kind of opens some of that early debate
and I felt differently about it I think
it's a good example of being candid
about this was a big change for us it
hasn't all gone perfectly there's a lot
that we can do better how we Implement
levels at Netflix and I would rather
share that information than pretend it's
all gone swimmingly and we achieved
every objective so I think that I try to
build examples like that because I I do
think that level of cander and
reflection helps build a sense of
community and Trust across the team it's
an awesome
example kind of along the lines of that
but also this category of freedom and
responsibility something Netflix
innovated long ago and I'm curious if
this is is still a thing is this idea of
chaos monkeys which essentially are a
program that runs on your infrastructure
that just kills random processes and
things and just to see what breaks and
make sure things are stable when things
actually start falling apart so uh is
chaos monkeys is that what it's still
was that what it's called and then is
that still a thing is there still some
chaos monkeys running around the the
servers not unbridled chaos monkeys no
okay contained chaos no car we carry too
much responsibility speaking of freedom
and responsibility for the member
experience to
inject
pain though we do do a lot of
experiments to test
resilience and that does probably mean
injecting things that we're not quite
sure whether a is better than b and so
that happens across Engineering Systems
really at scale but it it's not for Pure
chaos it's for intentional learning and
so we can avoid making bigger mistakes
and then as we go into new efforts like
Cloud games we have a beta that's out
now live would be another example we do
try to come up with intentionally
lowprofile examples where we can test
the bals of our systems in a way that's
unlikely to damage the member experience
but uh that's less Randomness more by
Design and so we're doing that in a few
places that feels mostly like good
engineering practice so we can
understand when when it's really
showtime and we're going to really test
our systems will they be able to perform
like we want them to rip chaos
monkey
yeah so kind of along these lines of
data something that so data itself has
always been at the heart of Netflix and
my understanding is the way the data
team and the insights team is structured
has been one of the reasons Netflix has
been so successful and that's the team
you led before you moved into this new
role can you just talk about how these
teams are structured and why the
structure is so
effective yeah I certainly like to think
of it as being special it's unusual I
can explain
why so at the scale of company that
Netflix now is is very
often data oriented teams are embedded
in other parts of the business so it
could either be they're embedded in a
business line like ads or games
or they
are organized more functionally
separating data Engineers from data
scientists from analytics Engineers from
consumer
researchers and we've resisted that and
kept a centralized
team that is both functionally diverse
so across all those types of functions
that I just described and works on
nearly every area of the business from
within the
team
and I sort of understand why a lot of
companies move away from this because it
really does
require basically extraordinary
partnership that we would have people
work on data problems that don't report
into the teams that are relying on
them but the benefit we get is we get to
think about our functional expertise so
are we really world's best data
Engineers world's best data scientists
and how do we continue to be ever better
from a functional and Technical
perspective it gives people better
career paths because there's more
Mobility across the teams it feels like
a team that has a functional expertise
with a lot of different problems to
solve and so I think it enables more
cross-pollination of ideas in a
way and it also allows us to be really
objective that is probably the most
important thing that our job is not to
tell the story that someone wants to
hear with the data or to solve the
problem that someone thinks is most
important it's for us to have our own
perspective about things and I think
that that up levels the whole organiz a
because it means that we're able to be
truth tellers or to be curious in a way
that might not fit if we had a different
organizational structure we have to
balance that with be a good partner
deliver on the things we agreed were
priorities be flexible without we're
spending our time but it gives us agency
and responsibility beyond that and I
feel like the team takes that very
seriously so I've seen examples of that
in how we bring data to a lot of spaces
including how we partner with
engineering on data related topics or
how we partner with content that I'm not
sure we would have gotten to if not for
having that kernel that's sort of a
center of excellence around it and uh
it's data and insights that was the team
that you ran insights is that describing
user research or what is that a function
actually so part of data and insights is
a consumer insights team that includes a
lot of different flavors of
research really so in some ways consumer
is even a misnomer because there's parts
of the team that do internal research
for example on tools and products for
our studio Productions so that's more of
a a user research oriented versus
consumer and then the parts of that team
that are consumer oriented do things all
the way from content screenings to make
titles the best version of themselves
before they're on the service to more
traditional ux research search to think
about how can we deliver the best title
Discovery experience or how can we think
about things that improve
accessibility and then that team has a
global remit so there's also teams that
are more local or Regional expertise in
understanding consumer needs and
entertainment so consumer insights and a
team formerly known as still kind of
known as as a shorthand data science and
and Engineering combined together to
create data and insight it's probably
about two years ago that's another piece
that's unusual becomes truly a full
stack data and research expertise and so
we could tackle a problem like what's
the right way to think about
recommendations and how best to surface
them in a way that combines attitudinal
research qualitative and quantitative
with behavioral research on more of the
data science data engineering and
analytics side it's super cool because I
think it's really rare that the what
people think of of us user research is
within the data or and I think that
might be a solution to some of the
backlash a lot of user research teams
get where they're like I don't know what
are you guys doing all this anecdotal
evidence if it's under the same org uh I
feel like that leads to a lot more
credibility and uh avoids this like oh
data is telling me this thing this user
research team is telling me this thing
what should we yeah I I
mean consumer insights was one of the
newer teams for me you know it wasn't in
my background to lead a team like that
and not in my individual
training but they they are critical for
making sure we keep a consumer
orientation a member orientation on
things and I have loved to watch the
teams collaborate on problems because it
it's we talk about it as a superpower
internally in combining those skill sets
so I think the consumer insights team at
Netflix has had a lot of credibility in
a certain area of expertise and we took
it to the next level by combining it
with other of the fun functional
expertise so it's it doesn't it's not
required in every problem space so we
try not to overdo it and say we need to
be collaborating everywhere because that
just feels like a the wrong expectation
but we try to make the most of it in
spaces where we really benefit so yeah
it's worked out really well awesome okay
I'm GNA ask two more questions before we
get to our very exciting lightning round
and they're both uh skills that little
birdies have told me you're very good at
one is that you are very very
intentional and thoughtful about staying
close to individual teams and
individuals within the company even
though you're higher and higher in the
org I'm curious how you do that how you
actually practice this skill of staying
really close to teams kind of at the
bottom of the ladder and individuals
that are working on things in on the
ground basically a lot of it is how I
spend my time and fighting to preserve
opportunities to connect with people so
examp examples would be I still have
bi-weekly office hours people sign up
for slots um and I I get it can feel a
little like speed dating for 20 minute
slots but I get to meet a whole bunch of
people and hear about work here what's
top of
mind and people book them out many
months ahead and it's just an
opportunity to stay in touch and then I
do as me anything sessions with team
of different sizes depending on how
intimate we want it to feel but truly
anything is fair game as a way to get to
know me as a person for me to hear
questions to try to be candid about what
I can answer can't answer and so those
things have helped me maintain
connection but both of those examples
are about making the time for it so what
I have found as my role has changed is
that it just wouldn't happen if I didn't
make it a
priority and then through those types of
sessions I I do think I become or I hope
to become more approachable so people
know you can send me a slack message you
can send me an email like I mentioned
earlier I'm going to respond to you as
quickly as I can because I want to hold
myself to that bar and so that builds a
flow of
communication between me and the team
that I really value I don't think I
would want to do my job if I didn't have
those points of connection so that helps
to
you also send that email to everyone
after every leadership meeting so
they're like oh yeah Elizabeth yeah they
hear from me yeah kind of related to
this um so we have a mutual friend
that's how we got connected Ali Ral uh
she was a data scientist at herb B now
she's at Uber and she had a question
that she wanted me to ask and it's about
uh how good you are at being present so
her question is something you she's
noticed about something I've noticed
about her is how 100% present she is no
matter who she talks to do you have any
advice for people to get better at this
because it's so hard in the day of email
and iPhones and slack her question is
like like when does she respond to stuff
if not sometimes in meetings I actually
think I'm the most
present when I'm having conversations
like this
one and I I do preserve a lot of time to
have one-on-one conversations where I'm
genuinely curious about how someone's
doing
how I can help them what they're excited
about that's authentic and so
while my EA would probably cringe at
saying I I like to spend time doing a
lot of those one-on ones it's it is
relatively easier for me to say like the
human connection is part of what I enjoy
about this I think that's true for a lot
of people in what we get out of work in
life but I try to live that in those
meetings I'm probably not as good when
we're talking about meetings of 30
people and I'm multitasking um so I will
admit to doing that for sure but I I
think the one-on-one conversations I
treat as being pretty sacred and one of
the things I've noticed that helps me
continue to invest in that and maybe is
helpful for other
people
is some of
my greatest friends and connections
including people like Ali are people I
met along the way professionally so I
worked very closely with alli's husband
Keith enwood at multiple places um both
an alysis group and at Lyft and that
means that it's created opportunities
and it's been points of connection and
so you get back what you give basically
um there are people in my life who are
part of my life because I worked with
them or because I crossed paths and I
like to think that if I can make a like
a positive mark on them you know it'll
come back and be a benefit at some point
too so I think to distill that is that I
truly enjoy it it's what I get out of
especially work and then it it's my
community and that's served me really
well over time and so I have given
people advice of this is a small
community think about what you're
investing in other people because that
will matter down the line for yourself
too and try to live that myself that
such good advice there's kind of two
things that come to mind there when is
treat people the way you want to be
treated someone once said that maybe and
I think you come back to this a couple
times this idea of just pay attention to
what gives you energy and that you're
good at and just almost double down on
that just like make that more and more
of a
superpower yeah that last part resonates
it's been a big part of my personal and
professional practice
to reflect on how I'm feeling what what
I'm excited
about what I'm
enjoying and I I do think it helps me be
more grounded which maybe helps me be
more present or helps me be a better
manager or leader that might be part of
the secret sauce too but it it's part of
my practice I can't help but ask is this
like an actual practice do you do this
on a regular basis or is this just
something you think about like I should
reflect back I wish I was so Advanced to
say I meditate and I I create all this
structure
it's more that
I I think I mentioned maybe I'm an
introvert so I do spend some time alone
that's how I
recharge and early mornings especially
people who know me sometimes are
horrified at the time of day I send
emails but early mornings are a quiet
time for me where I do try to have a a
daily check-in of just how are things
going why am I feeling anxious why am I
feeling excited and it's kind of a
muscle you build so while I don't I
don't write in a journal I don't have a
meditation practice I do have a time of
day when I I try to keep it protected
from other things so that I can think
for a second uh what I think about there
is Jeff Bezos has this approach in the
morning he just calls it he Putters
around he has no meetings until I think
10 or something he just wants to putt
around read the newspaper see what's
going on in email which I'm trying to do
I really like that that feels really
good I'm just GNA putt around I have no
responsibilities in the morning I like
I've never heard that I'm gonna adopt
that language
buttering puttering um Elizabeth is
there anything else you wanted to touch
on or leave listeners with before we get
to our very exciting lightning
R I'm ready for the exciting lightning
round well with that we reached our very
exciting lightning round first question
what are two or three books that you
recommended most to other people it's
probably a little recency bias but I've
been recommending what I talk about when
I talk about
running um by muracami which is talk
about introspection about the the
similarities between running and writing
as sort of flow States and very
meditative things so I I had read some
of his fiction books and the
autobiographical reflection
on these types of either professions or
Hobbies I think is very insightful so
that's one and then one of my long
favorite books is a fine balance by
mystery um and that is just a great
story
of human complexity and Challenge and
relationships so I'm drawn to both books
and TV and film that are about humans
speaking of TV and film this is a maybe
a high stakes question for someone that
works in Netflix do you have a favorite
recent movie or TV show I'm not going to
name all n nli that feels too much like
an
advertisement um
film triangle of sadness is
phenomenal if you haven't seen it and
then I'll go Netflix for
TV beef was I thought hysterical I'm an
Ali Wong fan but also just a pretty
unique storyline and I think they just
won a bunch of emmies they did amazing
good picks next question question do you
have a favorite interview question that
you like to ask candidates that you are
interviewing High Talent density I'm
usually looking for the person who would
be better in my role than I am in my
role so I often ask people what would
their priorities be what would they do
differently if they had my job next
question do you have a favorite product
that you recently discovered that you
really like so while I carry the CTO
title I live a pretty analog
life um so my most recent product is a
fellow pourover coffee maker which is
actually part of my morning ritual which
I'll Now call puttering around where I
take Great Lengths in my coffee making
process because I find it calming and
then it's not a recent find but I have
to shout out that my pelaton is probably
the favorite product I own the bike or
the treadmill
bike I'm a recovering outdoor cyclist so
it's also kind of questionable if I can
even admit to this but that's why I will
admit to I love the pelaton despite
being ideally an outdoor cyclist I have
questions about your cycling but before
that question do you have a favorite
life motto that you often come back to
or share with friends or family that you
find useful either in work or in life my
mom said something to me that has stuck
with me I don't know if I live it very
well but her the phrase was something
good happens every
day and the reason she said it was
because she was encouraging me to be
more mindful about enjoying the small
things in the daytoday rather than
letting myself get caught up in the
busyness beautiful final question you're
a big biker and
triathlete I am curious what that Sport
and time has given you in your career or
in life what what benefits have you
found from spending so much time and
energy running biking being an
athlete certainly by mental resilience
so while those sound
like physical strength I found
especially Endurance Sports are much
more mental and how you go through the
highs and
lows and sustain and then coming back
from challenge so those Sports have had
their highs and lows and from the lows
I've really learned how to kind of
recover and bounce back so those feel
like universally applicable skills you
have such an interesting mix of
athleticism and then Netflix what a good
balance for life this is going to give
me permission to go watch some Netflix
repor recording this on Friday afternoon
Elizabeth you're awesome thank you so
much for being here two final questions
where can folks finding online if they
want to reach out and maybe follow up on
things and how can listeners be useful
to you
um you can always find me on LinkedIn um
so definitely reach out or ping me if
you have questions or
comments and I think the way the
listeners can be useful to me
is being
maybe curious
about how they can show up even better
in their lives now that we've done this
reflection on Netflix culture and how we
show up for other people and I would
like to ask listeners to pay that
forward to people that they're working
with and how they show up for them
amazing I love that if you end up doing
this and you're listening uh maybe leave
a comment on YouTube or in substack with
something that you all covered about
yourself Elizabeth thank you so much for
being here thank you Lenny I hope you
have a great weekend same bye
everyone thank you so much for listening
if you found this valuable you can
subscribe to the show on Apple podcast
Spotify or your favorite podcast app
also please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast you can
find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at Lenny's podcast.com
see you in the next
episode